An ancient story of suffering
that impacts you today.
Some things stand the test of time. Think of
classic books like “The Iliad" and “The Odyssey”,
a movie like “It's a Wonderful Life”, or anything
passed down from generation to generation.
While many items, stories, and memories fade
into history and are forgotten, some things just
remain. In order for something to remain, there
must be a perceived value in it.
The book of Isaiah is a great example of
something that has stood the test of time. It
was held onto because of its perceived value. It
was written hundreds of years before years
started being counted in the other direction (BC
to AD), and here you are today reading about it
nearly three thousand years later…
How did this book stand the test of time?
Could it be that the book of Isaiah was passed
down from generation to generation because
it is the word of God? Could this be proven?
Isaiah, the writer of this great book, outlines
the qualifications for how one could know that
a word is from God in chapter 46, verses 9 and
10:
Remember the former things of old,
For I am God, and there is no other;
I am God, and there is none like Me,
Declaring the end from the beginning,
And from ancient times things that are not
yet done...
One might accurately predict that something
will happen in the near future. Maybe that a
certain sports team will win a championship in
the coming year, perhaps even the final score
of a season’s final game could be guessed, but
many of Isaiah’s prophecies ended up being
fulfilled several centuries later! Surely only God
could accomplish something like this,
especially in the detail that follows.
In Isaiah, God calls an individual being written
about his “servant”, and because of the suffering
the servant is prophesied to undergo, Isaiah
52:13-53:12 is commonly subtitled “The Suffering
Servant”. Here is how Isaiah explains the
servant's coming suffering.
Isaiah seems to stop his thought in order to
explain what the suffering servant would look
like. He would be so disfigured that he wouldn't
look like other humans. His audience preserved
this detail for centuries before it was fulfilled in
the suffering servant.
Just as many were astonished at you,
So His visage was marred more than any
man, And His form more than the sons of
men; (Isaiah 52:14)
So then Pilate took Jesus and scourged Him.
And the soldiers twisted a crown of thorns
and put it on His head, and they put on Him
a purple robe. Then they said, "Hail, King of
the Jews!" And they struck Him with their
hands. (John 19:1-3)
A Few Examples
Jesus was brutally beaten. Those who saw Jesus
later on reported that they didn't recognize him
at first. One had to hear his voice, and others
had to see his nail-scarred hands. Even the way
Jesus would receive these scars was written for
us.
Isaiah goes on to say that the servant would be
despised and rejected by men, and this is
precisely what happened, according to multiple
eyewitnesses.
You might be wondering why the servant had to
suffer. Isaiah lays this out for us as well. You read
above that the servant was wounded for our
transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. He
adds later that the servant “bore the sin of
many”. He references our transgressions,
iniquities, and sins multiple times throughout his
prophecy. Remember, Isaiah was writing to
people who wouldn't live to see this servant, and
yet he wrote “our transgressions”.
But He was wounded for our transgressions,
He was bruised for our iniquities; (Is. 53:5)
Why Does This Matter To Me?
It's important to realize that you and I are sinners
as well. We lie, steal (even if it's something small or
immaterial), covet, and look lustfully at others. If
we're honest, we have all sinned according to God's
law. If you need to, pause and think about that for a
second. Be honest with yourself. Isaiah included
himself in “our sins”, “our iniquities”, and “our
transgressions”. Aren't you included as well?
Isaiah writes in verse 6, “All we like sheep havegone astray; we have turned—every one—to hisown way…”To put it simply, we ALL need help!
Because God is holy, righteous, and just, He can't
just let sinners get away with it. Sins must be paid
for. If they weren't, God would be a bad judge. We
should all receive the penalty we've earned for
our sin. Isaiah tells us much about the suffering
Jesus would go through in order to bear our sin.
As you read in the beginning of Isaiah 53:5, the
servant was wounded and bruised for us, and the
rest of the verse adds more detail.
The chastisement for our peace was upon Him,
And by His stripes we are healed.
We deserve to be bruised and wounded by God,
but the servant took this punishment for us.
Isaiah writes a few verses later that the servant
was cut off from the land of the living (killed) and
stricken for our sins. Remember, his appearance
was marred beyond human semblance.
The servant, Jesus, gives more detail on the just
punishment we should've received.
"When the Son of Man comes in His glory,
and all the holy angels with Him, then He
will sit on the throne of His glory. All the
nations will be gathered before Him, and He
will separate them one from another, as a
shepherd divides his sheep from the goats.
And He will set the sheep on His right hand,
but the goats on the left... "Then He will
also say to those on the left hand, 'Depart
from Me, you cursed, into the everlasting
fire prepared for the devil and his angels:...
And these will go away into everlasting
punishment, but the righteous into eternal
life." (Matthew 25:31-33,41,46)
God would've been just to let us receive eternal
judgment, but instead, he provided a substitute
for us, a sacrifice that he would accept because
of its perfection. That sacrifice is detailed for us
in this great prophecy from Isaiah.As we've seen, his chastisement brought uspeace, with his wounds we are healed, and theend of 53:6 says, “the LORD has laid on Him theiniquity of us all.” The first part of verse 10 says,“Yet it pleased the LORD to bruise Him; He hasput Him to grief. When You make His soul anoffering for sin…"The Good News
This was all part of God's plan! It was his will to
bruise his Son on our behalf, in our place. The
suffering servant was made “an offering for sin”.
Because of this, sinners like you and me, don't
have to receive eternal punishment but can
receive eternal life. We can be in God's presence
for eternity, in a perfect kingdom. No more sin or
illness.
God is calling a people that will be healed, some
on this earth (like Matthew writes about when
referencing Isaiah 53:4), to reflect what his
kingdom will look like, and
many
, as Isaiah says,
will be considered righteous and permanently
healed and restored in Heaven.
You can be freed from your life of sin and
darkness!
Isaiah gives us a hint, centuries before it was
more clearly revealed, of how we can receive
this gift of salvation from God. In Isaiah 53:1, he
writes:
This was written about Jesus when he was on
this earth, in the gospel of John.
Who has believed our report?
But although He had done so many signs
before them, they did not believe in Him,
that the word of Isaiah the prophet might
be fulfilled, which he spoke: "Lord, who has
believed our report? And to whom has the
arm of the LORD been revealed?" (John
12:37-38)
How Can I Partake In This
Gift From God?
Though Jesus showed people many miraculous
signs, many still did not believe in him. Many still
ignore, reject, and despise him today. But Jesus’
ministry was not complete in chapter 12 of John.
Isaiah tells us what was to come in the other half
of Isaiah 53:10.
God’s will was that the suffering servant would
not only be the perfect sacrifice for sinners but
that he would also rise again. Isaiah tells us he
would “prolong his days,” meaning that the
sacrifice was not the end of the story. Jesus tells
us the same thing before he went to the cross to
fulfill all that was written of him.
He shall see His seed, He shall prolong His
days, And the pleasure of the LORD shall
prosper in His hand.
For this reason the Father loves me,
because I lay down my life that I may take
it up again. No one takes it from me, but I
lay it down of my own accord. I have
authority to lay it down, and I have
authority to take it up again. This charge I
have received from my Father.” (John
10:17-18)
Jesus did just that. He suffered on a Roman
cross, was buried, and was raised again. This
same Jesus, after he arose, sent the Holy
Spirit, who worked through ordinary people
to build his church.
When Peter, an ordinary man who
followed Jesus, preached this message of
salvation after Jesus was resurrected, his
hearers wanted to know how to partake in
this gift.
Repent. Turn away from your sins and believe
that Jesus is the suffering servant who died in
our place and who prolonged his days by his
resurrection, and you will receive eternal life
and the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Now when they heard this, they were cut
to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest
of the apostles, "Men and brethren, what
shall we do?" Then Peter said to them,
"Repent, and let every one of you be
baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the
remission of sins; and you shall receive the
gift of the Holy Spirit. (Acts 2:37-38)

Believing the gospel of Jesus Christ is not
something you do once and then return to
your normal way of life. Jesus calls us to follow
him and to be his disciples. He told his
disciples that he was “the way, the truth, and
the life” and that no one could come to his
father in heaven but through him. As Isaiah
asked, who has believed? Do you?Please, find a local church, perhaps from theperson who shared this with you, and grow inyour relationship with Jesus.This was only a small glimpse into what waswritten in Isaiah 53 and fulfilled in the life,death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Iencourage you to read Isaiah 52:13-53:12 in itsentirety and then go and read the gospel ofJohn. These are books of the Bible that can beread from any number of free Bible apps.Become A Disciple
Want to share this message with others? Visit
nonametracts.com
or scan the QR code below.No Name Tracts
Scripture taken from the New King James Version®.
Copyright © 1982 by Thomas Nelson. Used by
permission. All rights reserved.